

Quasigroup Completion Problem (QCP)

An order m quasigroup is a Latin square of size m. That is, a m by m multiplication table in which each element occurs once in every row and column. For example,

1        2       3       4
4        1       2       3
3        4       1       2
2        3       4       1

is an order 4 quasigroup. 


Quasigroup Completion Problem asks to complete a quasigroup given some of its entries. 
For example, partially specified quasigroup

1                        4
                 2        
3               1        
         3                

could be completed as the first example above.

Practical application:
Dynamic wavelength routing in Fiber Optic Networks can be directly mapped into the Quasigroup Completion Problem.



Constraint Satisfaction Problems (CSP)
* How to formulate? V, D, C
* How to solve? Backtracking algorithms

Solving a CSP
* Simple Backtracking (BT)
* Forward Checking (FC)
* Maintaining Arc Consistency (MAC)


Varible ordering heuristics:

SDF: Smallest Domain First. The variable chosen is the one with the smallest domain.
 
max-static-degree:The variable chosen is the one with the maximum degree in the original constraint graph.

max-dynamic-degree:The variable chosen is the one with the maximum degree to non-assigned variables. Also, called max-forward-degree.

brelaz: The variable chosen is the one with the smallest domain.Ties are broken by choosing the variable with smallest domain and maximum forward degree.

domdeg: The variable chosen is the one that minimizes the ratio of domain size to degree in the original constraint graph.

domddeg: The variable chosen is the one that minimizes the ratio of domain size to forward degree (i.e.the number of adjacent uninstantiated variables).

random: A random (unassigned or uninstantiated) variable is chosen.

IBS: Impact-Based Heuristic. Selects the variable having the largest impact and the value having the smallest impact.


dyanmic degree = row and column kotogula faka ase 
static degree = 2 * (n - 1)  (basically koto gula variables are associated with me)
 
As performance measures:
* number of consistency checking  == Number of nodes expanded. 
*  number of fails  == Number of times you had to backtrack (because a constraint failed)







